Final Project Choice 2: Knowledge-based System [12pts per section]


Your task is to construct a mini-rule-based expert system using Prolog for
Diagnosis or Classification/Selection in the domain of your choice.
It should be useful.  Check with me if you are in doubt.


Minimum System Requirements:
Must have at least 15 “main” rules, several sub-goal rules, and at least 10 facts.
(By “main” I mean rules such as “choose” in the HW example).
Must have confidence/certainly factors added as comments.
Must have lots of useful comments describing the rules and facts.
Implement the system in Prolog (must be testable using gprolog on empress.csusm.edu).


Section 1 of Your Report = Purpose of the Expert System
Describe your domain and state whether it is for Diagnosis or for Classification/Selection.
e.g. Medical diagnosis for lung related diseases based on symptoms
e.g. Classification of birds based on physical characteristics
e.g. Selection of cars based on customer needs
State the goal/conclusion that the system reaches. State the user inputs in detail.
What are the actual possible conclusions (list them)?
What information do you need from the user (list them with values)?
State why BWC, DFS is suitable for this problem domain. Why not FWC?


Section 2 of Your Report = Implementation (Source Code is not part of the report)
State the types of facts (if any) available in the knowledge base:
Describe the types of rules the system uses.  For example,
for the ESexample (week 9), describe what choose rules are for,
what reddish rules are for, etc.


Section 3 of Your Report = Testing and Results
  Test your program thoroughly and make sure it matches your expectations.
  Submit 4 example runs of the program each with and without tracing
  (screen snapshots) <insert into the document>
Test 1: should show what happens when there is no answer.
Test 2: should arrive at an answer very quickly.
Test 3 and Test 4: should arrive at an answer after some backtracking.


Section 4 of Your Report = Confidence Analysis
      What is the confidence you have in Test 3 and Test 4 answers from Section 4?
